# Dark energy and dark matter as a manifestation of a single metric-like dark field

A theory has been constructed that describes dark energy and dark matter as a single dynamic dark field. The theory introduces 4 dimensionless fundamental physical constants and is free of such problems as the vacuum catastrophe and the problem of infinite choice of model. An inflationary model of the Universe has been constructed, according to which the Universe is eternal both in the future and in the past, and in the distant past before the Big Bang matter was compressed to maximum rigidity compatible with causality, when the speed of sound is equal to the speed of light. The values of the age of the Universe ≈13.6 billion years and the deceleration parameter q0≈-0.847 are obtained. This value of q0 is consistent with observations when the value obtained within the framework of the standard cosmological model ΛCDM diverges at the level of 1.9σ. A model of a galactic dark field halo has been constructed, which allows for regions in space where the gravitational force is directed away from the center. A galaxy rotation curve for a halo was obtained, depending on 7 parameters. In particular, depending on the parameter values, the rotation speed can increase in proportion to √r or r. Equations for linear scalar perturbations of the dark field in the synchronous gauge are obtained. Based on the analysis of the anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background, approximate and assumed exact values of the introduced fundamental physical constants are obtained. The value of the Hubble constant H0≈78.67 (km/s)/Mpc is also obtained, thereby significantly reducing the Hubble tension.

## See the article.pdf file of this repository.
